Readme.md, before:

LANraragi
============

[<img src="http://dockeri.co/image/difegue/lanraragi">](https://hub.docker.com/r/difegue/lanraragi/)

Web interface and reader for storage of comics/manga on NAS, running on Perl/Redis/unar with a dash of Imagemagick and Bower.  
You can find a demo [here](http://faglord.party/lanraragi).

![](https://a.pomf.cat/vpqvmq.png)
*Comes in various flavors, from flat design apologist to sad panda.*  
	
##Hotdog ! How do I install this ?  
You can find the installation guide [here](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/blob/master/tools/Install.md) for Linux/Windows/OSX machines.  

##I got me a setup, how do I use this ?
First, login with the default admin password (kamimamita), and hit the configuration page.  
There are multiple settings you can change, including but not limited to the content folder, your password or the reading order.
Afterwards, add your archives in the content folder or through the upload page, and it just works™  

##Features

* Stores your comics in archive format. (zip/rar/targz/lzma/7z/xz/cbz/cbr supported)  

* Read archives directly from your web browser: they're extracted automatically when you want to read them, and deleted when you're done. 

* Paged archive list with thumbnails-on-hover.  
![](https://a.pomf.cat/jooipu.png)

* ..Or thumbnail view !  
![](https://my.mixtape.moe/rloatv.png)

* Choose from 5 preinstalled library styles, or add your own with CSS.      

* Tag support: Add your own or import them from predefined sources when possible. Batch Tagging available !  

* Responsive, so you can read on your phone/tablet when taking a shit.  



##Potential roadmap for when I feel motivated enough to take this up again    

* Use Gulp for bundling front-end dependencies on top of bower  

* Database backup/restoration

Commit message:

Added database backup/restoration.
Signed-off-by: difegue <sugoi@cock.li>

Readme.md, after:

LANraragi
============

[<img src="http://dockeri.co/image/difegue/lanraragi">](https://hub.docker.com/r/difegue/lanraragi/)

Web interface and reader for storage of comics/manga on NAS, running on Perl/Redis/unar with a dash of Imagemagick and Bower.  
You can find a demo [here](http://faglord.party/lanraragi).

![](https://a.pomf.cat/vpqvmq.png)
*Comes in various flavors, from flat design apologist to sad panda.*  
	
##Hotdog ! How do I install this ?  
You can find the installation and update guide [here](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/wiki/LANraragi-Installation-and-Update-Manual) for Linux/Windows/macOS machines.  

##I got me a setup, how do I use this ?
First, login with the default admin password (kamimamita), and hit the configuration page.  
There are multiple settings you can change, including but not limited to the content folder, your password or the reading order.
Afterwards, add your archives in the content folder or through the upload page, and it just works™  

##How do I update an existing installation ?  
Check [here](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/wiki/Updating-LANraragi).  

##Features

* Stores your comics in archive format. (zip/rar/targz/lzma/7z/xz/cbz/cbr supported)  

* Read archives directly from your web browser: they're extracted automatically when you want to read them, and deleted when you're done. 

* Paged archive list with thumbnails-on-hover.  
![](https://a.pomf.cat/jooipu.png)

* ..Or thumbnail view !  
![](https://my.mixtape.moe/rloatv.png)

* Choose from 5 preinstalled library styles, or add your own with CSS.      

* Tag support: Add your own or import them from predefined sources when possible. Batch Tagging available !  

* Responsive, so you can read on your phone/tablet when taking a shit.  


##Potential roadmap for when I feel motivated enough to take this up again    

* Use Gulp for bundling front-end dependencies on top of bower
