tools/Documentation/installing-lanraragi/vagrant.md, before:

---
description: >-
  For computers that are unable to easily use Docker or WSL(Basically just
  Windows 7 and 8), Vagrant allows you to quickly get started nonetheless.
---

# Vagrant \(Deprecated\)

{% hint style="danger" %}
Vagrant installs are **deprecated** as of 0.6.0. They'll work, but come with enough potential issues and slowdowns that I don't recommend you use them at all! 
{% endhint %}

### Using the Vagrantfile

You can use the available Vagrantfile with [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) to deploy a virtual machine on your computer with LANraragi preinstalled.

{% hint style="info" %}
This method requires [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) to be installed on your machine! I recommend version [6.0.4](https://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/6.0.4/).
{% endhint %}

Download [the Vagrantfile setup](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/raw/master/tools/VagrantSetup) and put it in your future LANraragi folder, and enter the following commands in a terminal pointed to that folder:

```text
vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
vagrant up
```

Once the Vagrant machine is up and provisioned, you can access LANraragi at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).  
Archives you upload will be placed in the directory of the Vagrantfile.

The Vagrant machine is a simple Docker wrapper, so the database will also be stored in this directory. \(As database.rdb\)

You can use `vagrant halt` to stop the VM when you're done.  
To start it up again, use the following commands:

```text
vagrant up
vagrant provision
```

Keep in mind that the Vagrant setup, just like Docker, will always use the latest release.

{% hint style="info" %}
You can switch to nightlies by downloading the Vagrantfile available [here](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/raw/master/tools/VagrantSetup_nightly) and replacing your vanilla Vagrantfile with it.
{% endhint %}

### Updating

From the directory where the Vagrantfile is located:

```bash
vagrant up
vagrant provision
```

Those two commands will update the wrapped Docker image to the latest one\(basically automatically doing the commands written up there on the Docker section\). No other operations are needed.

Commit message:

Update vagrant instructions and fix nightly vagrantfile (#136)
* Fix nightly vagrantfile

This change is required in order to actually update to nightly versions of LRR.

* Update Vagrant install instructions

* Better grammar and fixes

* Remove VirtualBox 6.0.4 Suggestion 

This isn't needed anymore since the vbguest plug-in was updated, see: https://github.com/dotless-de/vagrant-vbguest/issues/278#issuecomment-495823175

* Update tools/Documentation/installing-lanraragi/vagrant.md

Co-Authored-By: Difegue <sugoi@cock.li>

* Update tools/VagrantSetup/Vagrantfile_nightly

Co-Authored-By: Difegue <sugoi@cock.li>

* Update tools/VagrantSetup/Vagrantfile_nightly

Co-Authored-By: Difegue <sugoi@cock.li>

* Remove nightly hint

No longer necessary and the link doesn't work anyway.

* Add missing link

* Centered security level table

tools/Documentation/installing-lanraragi/vagrant.md, after:

---
description: >-
  For computers that are unable to easily use Docker or WSL(Basically just
  Windows 7 and 8), Vagrant allows you to quickly get started nonetheless.
---

# Vagrant \(Deprecated\)

{% hint style="danger" %}
Vagrant installs are **deprecated** as of 0.6.0. They'll work, but come with enough potential issues and slowdowns that I don't recommend you use them at all! 
{% endhint %}

### Using the Vagrantfile

You can use the available Vagrantfile with [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) to deploy a virtual machine on your computer with LANraragi preinstalled.

{% hint style="info" %}
This method requires [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) to be installed on your machine!
{% endhint %}

Download the [Vagrantfile](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/tree/dev/tools/VagrantSetup) that's relevant to the version of LANraragi that you want to install, then move it to your future LANraragi folder. If you downloaded the nightly Vagrantfile, be sure to remove `_nightly` from the end of the filename. Once you've done that, open a terminal in that folder and enter the following commands:

```text
vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
vagrant up
```

Once the Vagrant machine is up and provisioned, you can access LANraragi at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).  
Archives you upload will be placed in the directory of the Vagrantfile.

The Vagrant machine is a simple Docker wrapper, so the database will also be stored in this directory. \(As database.rdb\)

You can use `vagrant halt` to stop the VM when you're done.  
To start it up again, use the following commands:

```text
vagrant up
vagrant provision
```

Keep in mind that the Vagrant setup, just like Docker, will always use the latest release.

### Updating

From the directory where the Vagrantfile is located:

```bash
vagrant up
vagrant provision
```

Those two commands will update the wrapped Docker image to the latest one\(basically automatically doing the commands written up there on the Docker section\). No other operations are needed.
