tools/Documentation/extending-lanraragi/index.md, before:

---
description: I'd like to interject for a moment
---

# 🏗 Setup a Development Environment

## Quick rundown

LRR is written in Perl on the server-side with the help of the [Mojolicious](http://mojolicious.org) framework, with basic JQuery on the clientside.  
**npm** is used for JavaScript dependency management and basic shortcuts, while **cpanm** is used for Perl dependency management.

As of v.0.5.5, a basic Client API is available for you to write clients that can connect to a LANraragi instance.

## Quick setup

Once you've got a running LANraragi instance, you can basically dive right into the files to modify stuff to your needs. As you need raw access to the files, a native OS install is needed!\
I recommend a Linux or WSL install, as the _morbo_ development server only works on Linux.

Said development server can be ran with the `npm run dev-server` command.  
The major difference is that this server will automatically reload when you modify any file within LANraragi. Background worker included!

You'll also probably want to enable **Debug Mode** in the LRR Options, as that will allow you to view debug-tier logs, alongside the raw Mojolicious logs.

## Using docker compose

You can use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) for quickly bringing up a LANraragi instance suitable for development.
Run `docker compose up -d` inside `tools/build/docker` and hack away!

Commit message:

Add barebones doc for codespaces

tools/Documentation/extending-lanraragi/index.md, after:

---
description: I'd like to interject for a moment
---

# 🏗 Setup a Development Environment

## Quick rundown

LRR is written in Perl on the server-side with the help of the [Mojolicious](http://mojolicious.org) framework, with basic JQuery on the clientside.  
**npm** is used for JavaScript dependency management and basic shortcuts, while **cpanm** is used for Perl dependency management.

As of v.0.5.5, a basic Client API is available for you to write clients that can connect to a LANraragi instance.

## Quick setup

Once you've got a running LANraragi instance, you can basically dive right into the files to modify stuff to your needs. As you need raw access to the files, a native OS install is needed!\
I recommend a Linux or WSL install, as the _morbo_ development server only works on Linux.

Said development server can be ran with the `npm run dev-server` command.  
The major difference is that this server will automatically reload when you modify any file within LANraragi. Background worker included!

You'll also probably want to enable **Debug Mode** in the LRR Options, as that will allow you to view debug-tier logs, alongside the raw Mojolicious logs.

## Using Github Codespaces

The LRR Git repository contains [devcontainer.json](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/tree/dev/.devcontainer) configuration for [Codespaces](https://github.com/Difegue/LANraragi/codespaces), so you can easily spin up a development VM using that. 
Deployment might take some time, as the VM will download all dependencies.  

## Using Docker Compose

You can use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) for quickly bringing up a LANraragi instance suitable for development.
Run `docker compose up -d` inside `tools/build/docker` and hack away!
